---
layout: post
title:  "Nicolás Müller gives a webinar on 'Intermittency of velocity circulation in quantum turbulence' at 4pm UK time"
date:   2021-05-11
categories: webinar
---
Nicolás Müller (Universite Côte d’Azur) gives a webinar on "Intermittency of velocity circulation in quantum turbulence" at 4pm UK time.

Zoom link: https://newcastleuniversity.zoom.us/j/89135861130 

Meeting ID: 891 3586 1130

Passcode: 459726


The velocity circulation, a measure of the rotation of a fluid within a closed path, is a fundamental observable in classical and quantum flows. In quantum flows, circulation is quantized, taking discrete values that are directly related to the number and the orientation of thin vortex filaments enclosed by the path. By varying the size of such closed loops, the circulation provides a measure of the dependence of the flow structure on the considered scale. Here, we consider the scale dependence of circulation statistics in quantum turbulence, using high-resolution direct numerical simulations of a generalized Gross–Pitaevskii model. Results are compared to simulations of the incompressible Navier–Stokes equations. We show that at large scales, circulation moments in quantum and classical turbulence display striking similarities, including scalings predicted by Kolmogorov’s theory and intermittency deviations. Our results strongly reinforce the resemblance between classical and quantum turbulence, highlighting the universality of inertial-range dynamics, including intermittency.
