---
layout: post
title:  "Ladislav Skrbek gives a webinar on 'Quantum turbulence in helium superfluids: Phenomenological experimentalist’s view, and where do we go next?' (4pm UK time)"
date:   2024-01-16
categories: webinar
---
Ladislav Skrbek (Charles University) gives a webinar on Quantum turbulence in helium superfluids: Phenomenological experimentalist’s view, and where do we go next?.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/2BhFQrPoUzM?si=zwbxVzQoMYuA0WW-" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe>

The talk is an overview of selected topics of quantum turbulence (QT) [1] - the stochastic motion of quantum fluids He II and 3He-B, recently described in detail in Ref. [1]. We focus on unified phenomenological description of 3D QT [2] (especially of the Vinen and Kolmogorov forms of QT, emerging as a direct consequence of quantum mechanical constraint on circulation in a superfluid) and description of transition to QT [3] (based on quantum channel flows, high-Stokes-number oscillatory flows and spherical counterflow [4]), both in the zero temperature limit and at finite temperatures where these superfluids display the two-fluid behavior.

[1] C.F. Barenghi, L. Skrbek and K.R. Sreenivasan, Quantum turbulence, Cambridge Univ. Press, 2023
[2] L. Skrbek, D. Schmoranzer, S. Midlik, K.R. Sreenivasan, Phenomenology of quantum turbulence in superfluid helium, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci., U.S.A. 118, e2018406118 (2021).
[3] L. Skrbek, D. Schmoranzer, K.R. Sreenivasan, Phenomenology of transition to quantum turbulence in superfluid helium, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci., U.S.A, in print.
[4] F. Novotný, Y. Huang, J. Kvorka, Š. Midlik, D. Schmoranzer, Z. Xie, L. Skrbek, Spherical thermal counterflow of superfluid 4He, submitted to Phys. Rev. Fluids
