---
layout: post
title:  "Michele Sciacca (Palermo University) gives a webinar on 'The one-fluid extended model of superfluid helium:
a complementary model' (4PM UK time)"
date:   2025-02-25
categories: webinar
---
Prof Michele Sciacca (Palermo University) gives a webinar on 'The one-fluid extended model of superfluid helium:
a complementary model' (4PM UK time)

Liquid helium-4 becomes superfluid at very low temperatures (below the threshold temperature T = 2.17 K). Among the most important peculiarities, it flows without friction, at least
in very narrow channels, and its thermal conductivity, which can be extremely high, depends
on the boundary conditions. The aim of the webinar is to introduce the one-fluid extended
model, as complementary model of the well-known two-fluid model for describing superfluid
helium [1, 2].
The one-fluid extended model, with heat flux as an additional independent variable, is able
to describe, among the others, some heat transport properties of superfluid helium such as
second sound and nonlocal transport. Important features arise in the presence of superfluid
turbulence, characterized by a tangle of quantized vortices, which leads to strong nonlinearities
between heat flux and temperature gradient.
The dynamics of vortex lines and their interaction with heat dynamics, a central topic in
superfluid turbulence, is dealt with by introducing the vortex line density as an independent
variable and writing its dynamical equations, considering the transitions from laminar to
turbulent flows and from diffusive to ballistic regimes.
It is worth noting the appearance of an extended two-fluid model in the one-fluid model,
which may be directly compared to the classical two-fluid one. For this purpose, we have
recently performed some numerical comparison between these two models of superfluid helium
in a 2D counterflow channel [3].

References

[1] M.S. Mongiov`ı, D. Jou, M. Sciacca, Non-equilibrium thermodynamics of superfluid helium
and quantum turbulence Springer (in press) 2025.
[2] M.S. Mongiov`ı, D. Jou, M. Sciacca, “Non-equilibrium thermodynamics, heat transport
and thermal waves in laminar and turbulent superfluid helium” Physics Reports 726
(2018): 1-71.
[3] L. Galantucci, M. Sciacca, “The wall effect in a plane counterflow channel” Journal of
Non-Equilibrium Thermodynamics 49 (2024): 205-214.
